# Class 15 Notes

### Silicon Valley’s gender gap is the result of computer-game marketing 20 years ago
After the video game crash of the 1980's, video game companies started marketing to young boys. These young boys from an early age were encouraged to have an interest in programming and gaming due to the marketing of other technologies. Eventually, less and less women became interested in computer science and men started dominating tech. Today, undoing this damage is pivotal to ensuring gender inclusivity in tech.

### Diversity in Tech
This graph shows several big tech companies and the demographics of who works for them. Amazon is the most diverse in terms of race, but still falls behind in terms of the gender divide. IndieGoGo is the only company with an even gender divide, but they're mostly white. Most of the other companies are mostly white or asian men. This shows how tech is largely homogenized and the timeline has shown how companies have grown more diverse over time due to efforts in the companies to do so.

### Why diversity matters to your tech company
Research at the University of Michigan has shown that diverse teams are more creative and display a wider array of solutions to a problem. Other research has shown how more women leaders at upper management have lead to more financial gains for those companies and diversity at banks lead to better financial performance. In general, companies lose out on potential talent by not hiring across diverse groups and diversity allows companies to market better to groups that they're not a part of.
