# Class 7 Notes

### Inheritance
Classes in C# can be inherited. When a class is inherited, it's a base class. An inheriting class is a derived class. Some classes can be abstract, which declares specific properties and methods that must be implemented by derived concrete classes. Other classes can be interfaces, which are classes similar to abstract classes, except they are more like a group of members that need to be implemented by derived classes and derived classes can have more than one interface.

### Abstraction
Abstract classes are classes that cannot be instantiated and are intended to be inherited. When inherited, any methods in the abstract class must be defined by a derived class. Abstract classes can have abstract or virtual methods. Abstract methods must be overridden by derived clases (unless they are abstract). Virtual methods are implemented by an abstract class, but they can be overridden by derived classes like abstract methods. If a class is sealed, it cannot be inherited or used as a base class, meaning it cannot be abstract.

### Polymorphism
This concept in object-oriented programming is about how derived classes can be treated as members of their base class. When virtual methods are called by a derived class as their base class, the overridden version of that method is called (as opposed to the base class' version). This creates the ability for multiple classes of the same base class to have different behaviors while possessing the same type.

### OOP Principles
The four principles are: Abstraction, Inheritance, Encapsulation, and Polymorphism. Abstraction is the ability for a language to hide details from any piece of code asking for a specific type. Inheritance is the ability for classes to derive properties and behaviors from other classes. Encapsulation is the ability for a language to group multiple properties, behaviors, etc. into a single unit. Lastly, Polymorphism is the ability for different derived classes to behave differently despite being treated as a shared type.
