# Class 42: Ethics

Due to the quick advancement of technology in the past century, society has been struggling to know how to use it properly. The information age is filled with the misuse of technology, from propaganda to malicious software to psychologically addicting apps. It is the responsibility of software engineers to know how to spot unethical coding practices and prevent technology from harming others.

## Programmers confess unethical, illegal tasks asked of them
In this article, the author talks about how programmers are sometimes asked to create unethical code. The consequences of suspicious code like this aren't apparent to them from the offset. In the case of Bill Sorour, he create a marketing quiz for a drug targeted at teen girls, which causes severe depression and suicidal thoughts. Not only was the treatment flawed, but the quiz was rigged to always recommend the drug. I'm in enthusiastic agreement with this article. Engineers are responsible for taking a stand against technology used for manipulation or destruction. What stuck out most to me about this article was how it showed the cause and effect of unethical code and what programmers could've done to prevent that. 

# Big Data is our generation's civil rights
This article talked about how data can be used unethically and bar certain people based on their personal data. Due to how easy it is to collect data, the schema for representing that data doesn't come until after the data is collected. When data is used for predictors of who a consumer is based on the content they search or place on a page, this can lead to serious consequences. When data is used to prevent people from something like bank loans based on their demographic, the use of data becomes a civil rights issue. I'm also in agreement with this article. I think how data is used is one of the most important ways we can move forward safely as a society and use data for good. I think what stuck out to me was relating how data could be used for unethical practices similar to redlining. I think that's something we're seeing today, with systems being designed based on bad data and discriminating specific races.
