# Class 4 Notes

### Classes
Classes are a reference type variable. When an instance of a new class is created (an object), memory is allocated on the heap to store the data and the variable stores a reference to that memory allocation in the heap. Classes are unique in that they can make use of inheritance. An inherited class takes all the public and protected methods and fields of its parent, but it can further expand or override these.

### Constructors
These are methods in classes that are called when a new instance of that class is created. Constructors are used to set default values and set limits on the number of instances of that class. If no constructor is provided or a constructor is parameterless, the class calls a generic constructor.

### Properties
Properties are special fields that can be used to get or set private fields. Properties can also have expression body definitions, which set or return the value of an expression following '=>'.

### Stack and Heap
The stack is an ordered list of code that is being executed from top-down. This allocated memory tracks what the program is currently running and it must be accessed in the order its set. The heap on the other hand is an unordered heap of allocated memory that can be accessed via reference (pointers). Value types go on the stack and reference types go on the heap. 

### Garbage Collection Fundamentals
The garbage collector is an automatic memory manager used by the CLR in C#. When a new object is created, the GC allocates the memory for that object in a managed heap. In specific cases, collection may be needed. Some allocations may become unreachable due to pointers to specific objects being changed in the code. When collection occurs, the GC searches the managed heap for unreachable code and compacts the reachable code in the heap in order to free up the memory of the unreachable code.
