# Class 28: Layouts

## Views
In the context of .NET MVC applications, views are webpages that are rendered by page models or controllers. They look like HTML, except they are designed to integrate with C# commands and the MVC architecture. Views work with either *view models* or *view data* to render data from the backend to the webpage. Models feature strongly typed data that are good for large amounts of complicated data. View Data are weakly-typed and are more ideal for smaller amounts of data that don't need strict typing.

### Layouts
Layouts are templates for content that can be displayed in a wide number of views or Razor Pages. Since some web apps have repeating elements, they can be reproduced by referencing a layout and calling RenderBody(). A layout can also specify sections, which breaks down specific content into a smaller area that can be called by a page. Layouts can even import namespaces and perform dependency injection.

### Partial Views
These are files containing portions of a web page and can be imported into a larger page. Partial views are asynchronous, so adding a partial view to a page requires an await through an HTML helper. A copy of the app's view data can be sent to the partial view to be rendered, but any updates to that data does not get sent to the parent page containing the partial view. Models can also be sent to a partial view.

### Tag Helpers
These are special HTML tags that can be added on the Razor markup side to call on server code. This markup then populates the generated HTML from that Razor page. Directives (denoted with @ symbol) can added to the top of the page to allow for more tag helpers. One of the default directives is ```@addTagHelper *, Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.TagHelpers```.
