# Class 2 Notes

### What is Unit Testing, Tutorial and 6 Best Practices
Unit tests are tests written to check whether a specific, small part of a program is functioning properly. You can create a proper unit test by creating a test class with the [TestClass] attribute and each method having the [TestMethod] attribute. Inside the test method, any relevant methods being tested will be called, followed by an Assert method, which will pass or fail the test method according to the Assert method run. Some key practices: don't run more than one Assert method in the same method, don't require unit tests to rely on each other, keep tests short and readable, don't work on cumbersome tests (they should be simple; difficult tests may indicate a problem with your program's design), add tests to the team's working build, and keep in mind: Arrange, Act, Assert. 

### xUnit.net Documentation
xUnit is a testing tool for the .NET framework. It uses some unique syntax which might not be found in other testing frameworks. The [Fact] attribute is used for test methods that are always true. The [Theory] attribute is used for test methods that are true for a set of data. When running a Theory test, the [InlineData] attribute can be used to specify data sets for the test that are passed in as arguments. You can also set up xUnit to run tests against multiple frameworks at the same time. 

### Art of README
This article breaks down the reasons and uses of a README. There are four requirements of a useful README (according to the article): it says what the program does, it shows how the program works, it shows users how to execute the program, and it includes any additional details. A README should exist, but it shouldn't also be lengthy. A good README can explain how the code works without anyone actually diving into the code. Lastly, a README should be designed to help anyone using your code to quickly decide whether it is useful for them or not.

### Readme Best Practices
This default README.md provides a useful template for writing good README files. It is set up into seven sections, some with their own sub-sections for more complicated information. Each section is laid out clearly and with useful markdown formatting when appropriate.  
