# Class 26: Bootstrap

## Bootstrap
Bootstrap is a framework that allows developers to quickly create front-ends for their websites with mobile in mind. Every component on a webpage has attributes applied to it using custom classes set by the framework.

### Grid System
A grid system is used to align and format content in Bootstrap. Each piece of content is aligned inside a container, which has columns and rows. There are several ways of fitting columns onto a page. Breakpoints determine the size of a container at particular page widths. There are 12 columns per row and some elements can be set to take up more than one column. Padding can also be given to elements using gutters, but each row must first be given a 'negative margin' for each column with a 'positive margin'. 

### Navbars
A navbar is wrapped in a navbar class and they don't need to be inside a container. Various features exist for navbars through classes, including the ability to collapse or expand the navbar, add dropdowns, and add inline forms (such as a search bar).

### Modals
A modal is a dialog box for a site that can be used for warnings or notifications. Modal windows have a fixed position that moves with a user's screen. Only one modal window can be displayed at a time.

### Forms
Form groups allow forms to be formatted in Bootstrap's grid system. There's support for several types of forms including multiple selections, input fields, text areas, and dropdown selections. Bootstrap also supports help text written somewhere on the form page.

### List Groups
List groups allow the formatting of lists inside of a container. Elements of a list group can also be turned into buttons for more interactivity or styled with colors and background.

### Cards
A card is like a container that groups together several elements. The main kind of contents that can be put into a card are text, lists, and images. They don't have a specific width, so they'll fit into the full width of the page unless put inside a container or customized through class attributes.

### Tables
A table can be created using the table class. Options with tables include coloring the header and coloring each row (including 'striping' rows). Tables are preset to be formatted like a normal container. As such, it's responsive properties can be customized using the table-responsive class.

### Alerts
An alert allows a page to display an alert to a user. Alerts can also include the option to be dismissed. Further functionality can be integrated with JS using the alert() method from that particular element.

## Azure DevOps
Azure DevOps is a product that provides a wide array of tools for a development's lifecycle. These include version control, project management, testing, automating builds, etc. There are two main types of Azure DevOps: Service and Server. DevOps Service is hosted on the Azure cloud and DevOps Server is hosted by the developer's own backend. 
