# Class 1 Notes

### Debugging for beginners
Code often does what the developer doesn't expect, so they use debugging tools to understand why their code isn't working. There can be several reasons why code doesn't work properly, including syntax errors, misunderstanding how an API works, changing code that affects other parts of the program, not knowing the code's intent, and expecting a different value from a variable than it produces. The Debug mode in Visual Studio is designed to run through a program step-by-step to understand and diagnose problems in the code. Breakpoints can be set at specific moments in the code to pause the program at those points. These can be used to narrow down what the program is doing at those points in the program. 

### Try/Catch Blocks & Exception Handling
The Try/Catch pattern is used to catch errors found in code and execute different code when that error is thrown. Some code may have errors that aren't accounted for by the existing code and it can be useful for programmers to handle specific errors that may come up in specific ways. The 'try' block encapsulates the code to be executed and checked for errors. 'catch' blocks specify what code to run when an exception (error) is thrown by the code in the try block. The 'when' keyword can be used to further specify what kind of error that the 'catch' block runs for. The CLR will automatically throw errors, but the developer can specify their own 'throw' statements if they are checking for specific errors in their code. Lastly, the 'finally' block specifies what code is to be run after any try and catch blocks, but this is typically used for cleaning up code. It's best practice to not specify every edge case and have bloated exception handling as this can lead to further errors.

### Therac-25
This incident involved poor software design in a radiation therapy machine. Unfortunately, the machine produced too much radiation and gave lethal doses to patients. This was due to a mixture of issues, including a lack of testing with hardware, developers and machine operators being overly confident, lack of documentation to explain error codes, and errors in the code that bypassed safety checks put in place. Therac-25 is an example of what can go wrong if code isn't properly tested, as it can endanger human life.

### Ariane 5
This incident involved a software error to cause expensive spacecraft to self-destruct. The Ariane 5's inertia system was taken from an older model that didn't accelerate at the same rate. This is relevant because a mixture of poor design and oversight led the engineers to create code that produced an overflow error when the Ariane 5 would gain too much horizontal acceleration. The older model never reach this high of acceleration, so it wouldn't cause the overflow error. The inertia system would fail and shut down, causing the Ariane 5 to pick up too much speed and cause its launcher to disintegrate from aerodynamic forces.
