# Class 04 Notes
## HTML & CSS
### Chapter 4: "Links"
Links are used to redirect to other webpages using the *a* tag. The *href* attribute indicates the page to redirect to when the link is clicked. Inside the *href* attribute, links to specific pages in a site can be referenced by specifying where the file is in the site's directory, as opposed to the website's full domain. These are called relative links and they can navigate up and down the directory the same as someone might navigate any other file structure. A link can also be open to a part of the HTML page with a specific id, by including *#* and the id in the href attribute. If a link opens to a new page, *target=_blank* is used. If a link redirects to an email, *mailto* is used.

### Chapter 15: "Layouts"
CSS has tools for controlling the positioning of elements of the page. The *position* attribute controls how the element block is positioned on the page. Normal flow or static is placed from top-down. Relative positioning is placed relative to where it would've been placed in normal flow, except it can be offset using the top, left, right, and down properties. Absolute positioning is taken out of the flow of the page and can be placed anywhere. Lastly, fixed positioning stays in one place on the page regardless where the user navigates and needs to have the top, left, right, and down properties set. In case of overlapping elements, the *z-index* property is used to determine the order of those elements, like a collage of images or articles. The *float* property can be used to take an element in normal flow and reposition it to the far right or left of the page, while still keeping it inside the flow of the page. *float* can be used to place elements in normal flow side-by-side. The *clear* property spaces out elements in normal flow to keep from overlapping each other in specific directions. One common problem with elements using float is properties like borders around containing elements being cut off. This used to be resolved by *clear*, but more developers use the *overflow: auto* and *width: 100%* properties inside the containing element. Columns can be created using the *width*, *float*, and *margin* properties. Keep in mind screen sizes and screen resolutions of different devices when designing websites, as these can affect how the pages are presented. Most pages are about 960-1000 pixels wide and most designers try to keep the most important information within the first 570-600 pixels at the top of the page. There are two main types of layouts: fixed width and liquid. Fixed width layouts don't resize with the size of the browser window, which gives the designer more control over the page at the cost of limiting what devices it can be viewed on. Liquid layouts resize with the browser window, which can lead to content not appearing as the designer intended or affect the readability of the site, despite being able to be seen on multiple devices and allowing for larger text.

## JAVASCRIPT & JQUERY
### Chapter 3: "Functions, Methods, and Objects"
Functions are pieces of code intended to do something specific. Basic functions are declared in a *function declaration* and called later in the code. Functions can return values using the *return* statement (both arrays and single values) and it can accept variables used inside the function called *parameters*. The actual values passed to a function are called *arguments*. Functions can be defined inside variables as *anonymous functions*, or functions with no name. These are known as *function expressions*. There are also *IIFE*, or Immediately Invoked Function Expressions, which are function expressions called immediately after being declared inside a variable. Variables have two scopes: local and global. Local variables exist inside functions and take less memory. Global variables take more memory, since they exist as long as the webpage exists. Variables within the same scope have conflicts, otherwise they do not conflict. 

## ARTICLES
### 6 Reasons for Pair Programming
Pair programming is where one developer is a Driver and one is a Navigator. The Driver writes the code and the Navigator directs what code is written or what needs to be fixed.
- *Greater Efficiency:* Code produced through pair programming takes longer, but is less likely to need to be debugged. Furthermore, the developers may come up with solutions faster together than when they're alone.
- *Engaged Collaboration:* The developers can hold each other accountable throughout the coding process to stay on track and they are less likely to ask for help from others when they are relying on each other.
- *Learning From Other Students:* Each developer brings a different set of skills with them. Pair programming facilitates learning between the two developers that have different knowledge.
- *Social Skills:* Communication is an important part of pair programming. As such, the developers learn to work with others through the process of communicating with each other, which is an essential skill in programming.
- *Job Interview Readiness:* Many interview processes involve pair programming between an employee and an applicant as a way of seeing how an applicant works with others.
- *Work Environment Readiness:* Companies don't need to train new developers who are already familiar with pair programming, where they might typically need to do this with CS graduates.
