# Class 02 Notes
## HTML & CSS
### Chapter 2: "Text"
*h1 to h6* tags are used for headings in HTML pages, each with their own formatting. *p* tags are used for paragraphs. *b*, *i*, *sup*, and *sub* are used for bold, italicized, superscript, and subscript text respectively. *br* puts line breaks in the middle of text. *hr* adds a horizontal line that separates elements. Visual editors are programs that allow users to edit webpages similar to word processors. Semantic markup are elements that change the way your text is presented and utilized by other programs. These elements include *em* (emphasis/italics), *blockquote* (longer quotes) *strong* (strong importance/bold), *q* (quote), *abbr* (abbreviation), *cite* (citation), *dfn* (definition), *address* (contact details for author), *ins* (content inserted into document), *del* (text deleted from document), and *s* (information that is no longer relevant/strikethrough).

### Chapter 10: "Introducing CSS"
CSS treats each element of an HTML page as being in its own block. CSS rules can be written to modify the properties of how these elements are displayed. A selector indicates what kind of element to target with a CSS rule. A declaration is the rule itself, typically a property that is modified and changes the visual properties of an element.

## JAVASCRIPT & JQUERY
### Chapter 2: "Basic JavaScript Instructions"
Statements are lines of code that give instructions to the computer. Comments are statements that aren't processed by the code. Single-line comments begin with '//' and multi-line comments are enclosed in '/* \*/'. Variables are pieces of data that are named. Data types include numbers, strings, and booleans. When storing strings, the characters are enclosed in single or double quotes. There are several rules for naming variables. Variables can only begin a letter, $, or _ , but it can also contain a number. Keywords and reserved words cannot be used in naming variables. Variable names should be descriptive and written in camel case. Lastly, variables are case-sensitive. Arrays are lists of values with the same data type. They can be accessed using numbered indices. Operators are special characters that are used to assign values (=), do math (+, -, \*, /, %), concatenate strings (' ' + ' '), and make comparisons (<, =, >). 

### Chapter 4: "Decisions and Loops"
Javascript makes decisions using conditions and conditional statements. First an expression is evaluated and compared in a condition, then it runs a conditional statement if the expression returns true. Comparison operators are used in the evaluation of conditions (==, !=, ===, !==, >, <, <=, >=). Furthermore, more than one expression can be evaluated in a condition. Logical operators (&&, ||, !) allow multiple comparisons to be made in order to evaluate a condition. *if* statements are used to evaluate a single condition and runs any code enclosed in brackets if the condition is true. *if...else* statements evaluate multiple conditions, but runs the first condition that returns true. Lastly, *switch* statements evaluate the value of a given variable called the switch value. Each case that matches the value of the variable is run.
