# Design Pillars : Part 1
## First, Some Background
If you're reading this blog, this is for the computer RPG that I'm developing, currently named 'Lucifer RPG' until I'm basically ready to release it into the world. I started the project in January 2020 after I was doing a solo-run of a hacked D&D game using the Diablo 2 supplement. I enjoyed the lethality and simplicity of the thrown-together game, but hated simulating the rolls for monsters and loot (oh boy, was there A LOT of rolling). So I thought to myself, "hey, I can code, why not make this into a little RPG combat sim???' I made the first build in 1-1/2 weeks and attempted to make it similar to KOTOR or NWN combat, which simulated turns in real-time. It was... boring. That's when I realized that the combat needed to be more interesting and I kept playing with the design. Things spun a bit out of control. It became a lot of different things after 6 months of development and I ran myself into the ground trying to figure out what this game is. I had to do something different, because my process kept leading me to dead ends.

## Finding Inspiration
Early on, I decided on the theme. As a nod to its source, I thought it'd be great to make Lucifer himself the star of the game and it gave me an excuse not to make a bunch of art assets for different equipment that needed to be animated. It also helped to anchor the design, but there was still a lot of uncertainty in terms of design. I had to find other inspiration for the game's rules outside of
